FAQS Working at the World Bank Group 1. What are the official languages of the World Bank Group? The Bank Group uses English as its primary official language. However, other official languages also include Arabic, Chinese, French, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish. 2. How can I find the jobs that are currently open at the Bank Group and how do I apply? In the Careers site under &#x27;Current Openings&#x27;, you will find the jobs that are currently open at Washington and our country offices around the world. It lists current vacancies with job descriptions and selection criteria. You can submit your application online and post submission, you will receive a confirmation that the application has been received. 3. How long does it take to complete the application? The application can be completed in as little as 15 to 30 minutes. Please be sure to complete the entire application in less than 2 hours, otherwise the system will time out and you will have to start the application from the beginning. 4. I am not able to attach my CV to my application. Is there something I should do differently? Ensure that the CV&#x27;s name does not exceed 20 characters and does not contain any special characters. 5. Does the Bank Group conduct background checks? Before a candidate officially becomes a staff member at the Bank Group, a pre-employment security screening is conducted. 6. Do I need a visa to work at the Bank Group? For you to work at the Bank Group in the U.S., if you are a non-U.S. citizen, you must either be in U.S. permanent resident status or have a G4 visa (which is issued at the request of the Bank Group) by the U.S. Department of State. For you to work at the Bank Group in any country office, you must be in compliance with residence, work authorization, or visa requirements for employment with international organizations in that country. 7. I have applied for a job but I have not heard back and my status shows &quot;In-Review&quot;. Will I receive an update? The selection process for positions at the Bank Group is extremely competitive and generate a large volume of applications. Regretfully, we are unable to respond to each applicant beyond the initial acknowledgement of receipt of the resume. Applicants who have been shortlisted will be contacted directly by one of our recruiters. Please note that the recruitment process can take several months and you will be able to see the updated status once the process is complete. 8. What is the difference between a local and an international hire? The Bank Group hires both internationally recruited staff (IRS) and locally recruited staff (LRS). In circumstances where (i) required skills cannot be obtained by local recruitment, or (ii) global mobility and international experience are essential, international recruitment may be authorized. Positions in country offices, irrespective of level, are subject to local recruitment. In circumstances where positions do not require global mobility and international experience, local recruitment may be authorized. 9. What is the Bank Group&#x27;s policy for spouses and relatives? The spouse or domestic partner of a Staff Member who meets the normal selection standards may be employed by the Bank Group. A husband and wife or domestic partners may be assigned to the same vice presidency, department or unit, if neither supervises the other, directly or indirectly, and their duties are not likely to bring them into routine professional contact. A spouse or a domestic partner of a Staff Member may be assigned to the same country office, provided that neither supervises the other, directly or indirectly, and provided that the Vice President responsible for the country office, in consultation with the Manager, HR Operations or the Director, Human Resources, for Bank or MIGA Staff, or IFC Director, Human Resources, for IFC Staff, approves the assignment. A Staff Member is required to inform the Manager, HR Operations when s/he learns that his/her Category I or Category II relative (Close Relative) is working or applying for employment with the Bank Group. This applies to close relatives who perform services for the Bank Group under a Bank Group appointment or as an employee of a firm, and to the close relatives of Executive Directors, Alternate Executive Directors, and Senior Advisors to the Executive Director. The term cousin means the son or daughter of an uncle or aunt, and uncle and aunt mean the brother or sister, respectively, of one&#x27;s mother or father whether the relationship is by blood or adoption. The spouse of an uncle or aunt is not a close relative by reason of the marriage. The term &quot;cousin&quot; means the son or daughter of an uncle or aunt, and uncle and aunt mean the brother or sister, respectively, of one&#x27;s mother or father whether the relationship is by blood or adoption. The spouse of an uncle or aunt is not a close relative by reason of the marriage. 1. Category I Relatives: The following close relatives, including relatives by blood or adoption, are not eligible for employment: Mother, Father, Son, Daughter, Sister, Half-sister, Brother, Half- brother, Aunt, Uncle, Niece, Nephew. 2. Category II Relatives: The following close relatives, including relatives by adoption, and domestic partners of close relatives are eligible for employment provided that they are not assigned to the same division or equivalent unit, and neither supervises the other, directly or indirectly, and their duties are not likely to bring them into routine professional contact: · Whole Relationships: Daughter-in-law, Son-in-law, Sister-in-law, Brother-in-law, Mother- in-law, Father-in-law, Grandmother, Grandfather, Granddaughter, Grandson, Cousin · Step Relationships: Step-mother, Step-father, Step-sister, Step-brother, Step-daughter, Step-son, Step-aunt, Step-uncle · Half Relationships: Half-aunt, Half-uncle, Half-niece, Half-nephew · Domestic Relationships: Mother of domestic partner, Father of domestic partner, Sister of domestic partner, Brother of domestic partner, Daughter of domestic partner, Son of domestic partner Note: In case of conflict between this FAQ and the applicable Staff Rule, the Staff Rule prevails. Programs and Internships 1. How can I find out if my country is part of the Donor Funded Staffing Program (DFSP)? Please visit the Donor Funded Staffing Program homepage to see the list of eligible countries. Funding for this program is tied to donor nationality. 2. What is the Global Secondment Program (GSP)? The GSP provides opportunities for professionals from member countries, regional agencies, and other external organizations to join the Bank Group on a temporary basis to contribute to the Bank Group&#x27;s work program. Arrangements for assignments are coordinated between the Bank Group manager of the hosting unit and the partner organization. In some cases, the partner organization will submit the names of several candidates to be interviewed for the assignment; in other cases, the partner organization has already conducted internal interviews and a selection process. For more information, click here. 3. Can I apply for an internship program at any time of the year? · The World Bank&#x27;s internship program is offered during two seasons: Summer Internship (June-September): The application period for the Summer Internship is December 1 - January 31 each year. · Winter Internship (December-March): The application period for the Winter Internship is September 1 - October 31 each year. For more information, click here. For any queries other than the FAQs listed above or for any technical assistance, write to hrweb@worldbank.org. Note: This email account does not accept resumes/CVs/Statement of Interests. Please apply on the Careers site.